---
layout: post
title: Off-Earth / On-Moon
date: '2004-10-19 23:20:05'
categories: post post
entry:
  id: 200
  source: post
  uid: 60
  data:
    title: Off-Earth / On-Moon
    excerpt: ''
  created_at: '2010-08-30 05:16:38'
  updated_at: '2010-08-30 05:16:38'
  pub_date: '2004-10-19 23:20:05'
  disabled: 0
---
Had to write this down -- it was the first dream I had
that took place off Earth...

Went into a metal contraption thru a door, sat down,
got up, and opened the door and was "on the Moon".  
It was daytime on the Moon.

There were 4-6ft bundles of blue/red paper/cardboard
stacked three high by a hundred wide 50 yards away in
the distance.  Thought to myself that it's as good of
a place as any if you want to keep something like that
around.  Maybe there is some kind of recycling
facility here.  Lots of trash and stuff strewn about
too.

My intention here was to build a music broadcaster. 
There were other broadcaster machines here among the
junk.  I knew there weren't any other people here.  It
was kind of neat to be the only person here, but to
see the evidence that I was definitely not the first
person here.  That made it feel more comfortable I
think.

Walked down the steps from the metal door, and thought
for a second that I wouldn't be able to breathe, since
I was on the Moon and all.  I inhaled, the air was a
bit thick and odorous (like Egypt was), but there was
air was there.  I assumed that the folks who had come
before me had set up some kind of atmosphere generator
or some sort of bubble to keep in the air.  This place
was a lot like the desert on earth, but I was indeed
"on the Moon".  

Anyhow, I carried on with my mission...

There was a turntable waiting for me at the bottom of
the steps, record spinning.  I placed the needle onto
the vinyl, and a lovely dance song I'd never heard
before played from the speakers nearby.  It rocked. 
Mission accomplished.  There would now be my music
broadcast from the Moon.

Time to go back.

I went back up the steps, thru the door into the metal
room, and sat down on a small couch.  I immediately
got up, opened the metal door, and went out into what
I guess was my house back on Earth.

I looked out the window into the night sky, and saw
the moon big and yellow; half of it showing above the
horizon.  I walked out onto the deck and pointed the
antenna out there at the Moon as rose completely above
the mountains in the distance.  Sure enough, the music
I had started playing on the Moon played on the stereo
inside the house.  I thought to myself, "now anyone on
Earth can listen to this as long as they can see the moon".
