---
layout: post
title: Why it's bad to be dumb with Koni adjutable shocks
date: '2004-09-08 12:06:06'
categories: post post
entry:
  id: 190
  source: post
  uid: 50
  data:
    title: Why it's bad to be dumb with Koni adjutable shocks
    excerpt: ''
  created_at: '2010-08-30 05:16:38'
  updated_at: '2010-08-30 05:16:38'
  pub_date: '2004-09-08 12:06:06'
  disabled: 0
---
when i was 16, i had a 1977 VW Scirocco i raced with my dad in D
Street Prepared SCCA Solo II.  being young and poor, i
couldn't outfit the car to the maximum spec allowed
all at once.  so i saved and saved until i could come
up with the $500 or so for a set of Koni SAs -- the
end-all, be-all piece of hardware for me and my fellow
VW buddies.

the Koni shocks for this car were externally
adjustable on the front ("Firm->" knob), but on the
rears you had to remove the shock, compress it fully,
twist to adjust it, then reinstall.

when we went racing, i would crank those babies full
stiff.  the car on a smooth track on Yoko A-008 RSII's
 would respond really quickly because there was pretty
much no suspension movement ;-).  we'd get to the
track early enough to do this procedure, since the 2
hour drive from the SF Bay Area to Crow's Landing
Naval Air Landing Field (where most of the events were
held) would not be fun in a car with essentially no
suspension.

anyhow, went to an event, adjusted the schocks, did my
runs, worked the course for the rest of the day, and
was plum tuckered out in the afternoon.  it was a hot
day, and the last thing i wanted was to get under the
car to remove / adjust / replace the rear shocks for
the drive home.

"I'll just soften up the fronts" i told myself.

fateful mistake .... being a lazy teenager (which
leads to lazy adulthood, btw), i neglected to soften
up the rear shocks for an entire week after the event.
 

next comes a lesson in vehicle dynamics....

driving home from my job selling "furniture" (sawdust
+ glue + camlock hardware == furniture???) at the
local Home Express store, i spotted a friend on the
road up ahead in his trick 280Z and sped up to catch
up to him.

rounding a nice 90-degree sweeping corner that i
enjoyed every time i went home from work, the car hit
a small bump about 1/2 way through the turn.

the soft front handled it fine, but when the rears
went over the bump -- bounce!  the tires lost traction
for just enough time to send the rear of the car
swinging out wide.  oversteer in a FWD car -- what a
suprise ;-).

countersteering, the rear hooked up again just in time
to send me straight into a fire hydrant on the side of
the road.

the car stopped on top of the hydrant, and I heard a
loud thundering/hissing noise.  the rear of the car
began to lift into the air (honest).  i unlatched the
seatbelt and jumped (honest) out of the car and looked
back and saw the rear end about 1-2 feet off the
ground, water spraying furiously from under it.  the
car rolled forward off the column of water, and i took
off running for the nearest phone to call 911.

the fire department came with several trucks, and
three police cruisers showed up too.  

i walked back to the car just in time to see the a
fireman opening the car door and water just poured
out.  it must have been up to the window sills.  the
rear window was broken out and the windshield was
cracked in many places.  the pretty-good paintjob was
ruined -- the column of water had lifted all sorts of
gravel and rocks up with it, which all rained down on
the car.

after it dried out, the car still ran and drove fine
-- i just needed to replace the glass that had broken,
i threw away the moldy carpet and rear seat, had the
moldy seats reupholstered, and i left the dented
bumper on the car as a reminder.

i continued to run the car in Solo II, having lots of
fun with my stripped, "full-race" (to me -- remember,
i was 16) scirocco.  i ended up selling it for $400 to
a guy who never registered it, and drove it to Mexico
where it was later found abandoned -- neuspeed
suspension, 16v wheels, and schroth harness removed.

-zs

ps -- that was the 2nd fire hydrant i "took out".  the
first was when, 30 days after i got my license, i
rolled my dad's new car over a hydrant after
experimenting with excessive speed.  i'm lucky to
still be alive and to have not hurt any innocent
bystanders ;-).  no accidents since then!
