---
layout: post
title: Hello From Singapore
date: '2004-08-01 20:57:14'
categories: post post
entry:
  id: 186
  source: post
  uid: 46
  data:
    title: Hello From Singapore
    excerpt: ''
  created_at: '2010-08-30 05:16:37'
  updated_at: '2010-08-30 05:16:37'
  pub_date: '2004-08-01 20:57:14'
  disabled: 0
---
Greetings from the Singapore International Airport.
 
Totally doesn't seem like we've been travelling for 19
hours (13 hours SFO to Hong Kong, 2.5 hour layover,
3.5 hours Hong Kong to Singapore).  Our flight left
San Francisco at 1:30AM, so it was lights out nearly
all the way.  It stayed dark outside for 95% of the
trip, so much sleep was had by all.
 
We landed in Hong Kong at 5:30AM local time, just as
the day was breaking.  I was amazed at what it looked
like there -- tall lush green hills rising from the
South China Sea.  A quick breeze thru the "Transit"
station, and we got some breakfast at a very nice cafe
in the airport.  Hong Kong is a very modern airport,
and had a ton of luxurious shopping.  It was like
South Coast Plaza, but without the May Company.
 
A couple hours, and we were back on the same plane in
our same seats for the journey to Singapore.  I
happened to look out the window as we passed over Pnom
Penh.
 
A word about the plane -- we flew Singapore Airlines. 
WOW.  Lovely service, great seats (not too cramped),
and excellent in-flight entertainment -- there were 60
movies on demand, a hundred albums, and all the
Nintendo video games you could play.  Yeah, i was
playing Super Mario Brothers most of the way.
 
So here we are in Singapore.  We have an 8 hour
layover, so we've booked a room in the "Transit
Hotel".  You can book rooms in hourly blocks (yeah,
seems sleazy).  So we went for a swim when we first
arrived, then took showers and cleaned up.  A fresh
change of clothes, then we went off for some
lunch/dinner.
 
There are free internet terminals all over the airport
here -- a nice suprise.
 
Three hours until our flight to Bangalore, so we'll
maybe catch a nap or just walk around this huge place.
 
Until next time.....
