---
layout: post
title: New Coffee Table Nearing Completion
date: '2004-06-07 10:19:06'
categories: post post
entry:
  id: 172
  source: post
  uid: 32
  data:
    title: New Coffee Table Nearing Completion
    excerpt: ''
  created_at: '2010-08-30 05:16:37'
  updated_at: '2010-08-30 05:16:37'
  pub_date: '2004-06-07 10:19:06'
  disabled: 0
---
Since we got our new furniture, including home made TV
stand, our glass-and-metal coffee table is sticking
out like a sore thumb.  It's cold, heavy, and hard --
especially when you hit your shin on it late at night
with the lights off.  Also, there's no place to put
the TV remote, computer keyboard, or mouse when
they're not being used.

Enter the woodshop.

Saturday morning brought Arti and I to a post-Peete's
excursion to <a
href=http://www.southernlumber.com/>Southern
Lumber</a>.  I had drawn up a plan the night before
for a new table to fit our needs.

One of the great thing about working with wood is that
an idea doesn't need to be drawn out with exact
measurements or detail.  It's totally possible to
build a piece of furniture that fits together tightly,
but was designed and built without doing any
measurements at all!  So armed with a general idea of
what we wanted to build, we went to get the wood for
this project.

We got home from the wood store in mid-morning, and I
tore into the boards.

We went through a couple of design iterations, and
ended up with a plan that eliminated the need for
about  $150 worth of wood while making for a more
pleasing piece.  That excess can now be returned or
reused.

I worked until about 4pm Saturday -- we were having a
party and expected people to start showing up at 5pm. 
At that point all of the wood was cut, miters were
fine-tuned, and tenons were dadoed.  Pretty good
progress.

Sunday was an open day.  After we had breakfast with
Ghizal and Pauly (and removed the badges from the back
of his 'bu), it was back to the garage to finish
things up.

I started with the assembly of the table top, moved to
the tapers on the legs (see previous article), then
the leg mortises (note to self:  do mortises *before*
tapering!!!).  By this time, the glue holding the
table top together had dried, so I pulled the clamps
off that to assemble the bottom part of the table.

I sanded the top and bottom of the table top smooth,
cleaned up a bit, then moved on to sanding the base
after the glue had dried.

I then moved on to the inlay on the top of the table. 
I had cut a rabbit in each table top "wrapper" piece
to accept a 1/4" square piece of Bolivian Rosewood.  I
bought a piece of 6" by 1/4" of this dark wood, and
rough-cut some 1/4"+ strips on the table saw.  So i
cut each strip to length on the miter saw, beveling
each edge at 45 degrees.  It took some fine tuning
with the hand plane (big fun!) and sandpaper to get
each piece to the perfect width.  I glued those
suckers in, waited a bit, then planed and sanded them
flush with the top.

So it's almost ready for finishing.  I just need to do
some final 320 grit sanding and drill some holes in
the legs and table top to acomodate a hidden dowel
type of  attachment system to keep the whole thing
together and tight.

Lessons Learned:
- Miter 1000 SE for tapers
- mortise before tapering
- tables work best and are strong and square with two
stretchers per side between each pair of legs. 
assembling this table and getting it vertically square
with only one stretcher was a big pain.

It should be finished by the end of this week.  We're
gonna run some tests with different stains and
finishes to see what works best on this hybrid
Cherry/Birch/Rosewood piece. 
